It is two truths. So that is really our words of the ground truth. The truth is so now, again, we
talked about what is here, the great Master Khentipadir mentioned, that it is as followed as the
great Master Dongchenpa's view exactly, so it is explained about in six different ways.
The first is Nature of the Two Truths. The second is the meaning of the Two Truths. And the third
is, Prove it is divided, for the best of the deviation of the Two Truths.
And the fifth is characteristics of the Two Truths. And the fifth is the deviation of the Two Truth
s.
And sixth is the purpose of the Two Truths. So those are six divisions in a way to expanding the
meaning of this Two Truths, or the Two Truths, which is as discovering the grown Mahdi Makar.
And so Mahdi Makar is the union of this Two Truths. As I said, when we say union, maybe the Buddha
made that union, or we are making that union. That is not it.
This nature is in that state. It is a union. Why are we talking union? Because that is where we
understand in this time. We don't see nature as full, disciplined.
Our knowledge is restricted, because the habit of it, we see only bits of this. This and we don't
see everything. Therefore it is as true.
Otherwise, absolute is absolute. It is the same status. So it is not something that has to make the
division. But this is the way our knowledge, understanding, is penetrating and overwhelming of this
nature.
Therefore, then it is true. Then it is true. And so now, the fourth is the nature of this. That is
what the great Master Shanti Deva said.
Absolute truth is beyond the conception. Relative truth is within the conception. That is what he
put.
Something we can understand easily is relative truth. Easy. Something that we can't figure out
immediately, that is absolute truth.
And what is that? Often in the teachings said, in the Paregula or in the Yuma schools of the
Buddhism, I mean it is not just only that, but that is highlighted.
This is called the appearance in emptiness to truth. So what is appearing to our six senses
immediately is relative truth.
And what is the nature of that? What is appearing that we don't see? It is absolute truth and which
is the emptiness. That is the name of that.
So appearance and emptiness, that is. So appearance is relative truth and the emptiness of nature
is the absolute truth.
That also, Buddha taught. In the Buddha taught, of course, there is a lot of Buddhas, this, this
and again in here.
Can you put that here? Quotations to you. And absolute truth is beyond the conception, that is not
existing in any places.
It is not any place existing, not anything. And the relative truth is, the nature of relative truth
is within the range of the conception and our mental status.
Therefore, absolute truth is only experienced, recognized by self discrimination, awareness,
westerns. That is only what we will discover.
So that is the nature of this, this truth, nature, more intuitive, nature status.
So now again, of course this is going to come little more, these things, but however, again, we
talk. And this is again one of the other examples, maybe examples.
Relative truth is, what is relative truth? Let us look about our time, in a way. Time, now what is
this month? This month is August.
August. And now, this is relative truth, we know. But we think, where is August?
Now we are thinking, where is August? We start really looking, trying to find out where is August.
What we will say? What we will say?
There is August. The beautiful August. Beautiful August. Where is this? Where is our beautiful
August? It is not really.
We must get that. The day one is August, the second is August, the third is August. Every year we
will say, it is not, not, not.
So, that is just a brief and roughly examples of that. If we don't ever get analyzed, if we don't
think August is here, August came, August is still here, and August will leave sometime soon.
It is just beautiful. It is nice, nice. But if we investigate, analyze, if we put the analyzations,
then August is disappeared.
Couldn't take our pressure of the analyzations. Couldn't take that pressure of the reason. Reason.
That is what known as the relative truth and absolute truth.
This is also that nature that we don't find. It is not something separated from the August. But yet
, it is not there as we think or we name. It is not there.
This is the same thing to every this phenomenal existence. If you can analyze, if it is a get,
maybe you will find, find finally hexabonds. Right? Hexabonds.
If you analyze hexabonds, you will find. But if you go more, four steps, more, two more steps, don
't. I don't think you can find anything. What is left is only mind.
That is the only left. Nothing is going. That is how it is everything. If you analyze MSG, there is
nothing that can take the pressure.
For that reason, in the great masters, these great masters often say, relative truth, it cannot
take the pressure of the analyzations. Can't take analyzations.
It is there. There, if you don't get MSG, analyze. Those, I will talk a little more about that. For
that reason, the great master Chanda Rakta said.
If you don't look at MSG, it is fine. It is so beautiful. It looks nice. But analyze. MSG, if you
put that in laboratory, it is like banana trees.
That is why everything is known as mirage. That is why it is known as everything is dream. That is
what relative truth is all.
For that reason, what I said, poem is emptiness. Emptiness of poem. There is no difference.
But I pointed right in Heart Sutter that true truth, so plain, so precisely, poem is emptiness. Em
ptiness of poem. That is what the nature is. This is what the nature is.
This is what the nature of truth is.